assets/content/home.md, before:

# Welcome to my Blog!

![me](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/asa55/asa55.github.io/master/assets/images/me.png)
### Alex Augenstein: Engineer, Scientist, Entrepreneur

## This site is in active development. I'm using it primarily as a professional demonstration, but I think there are some great nuggets on here that everyone might enjoy. I hope you find this resource helpful as you browse around, and if you have any suggestions for this site please feel free to [let me know in the repo on GitHub](https://github.com/asa55/asa55.github.io/issues)

## A little bit about me
### Work
* Founder, [Neurobi Company](https://neurobi.com/), 2019 - pres.
* Engineer, Naval Nuclear Laboratory, 2015 - pres.
* Research Assistant, University of Pittsburgh, Fall 2014
* Research Assistant, University of Zwickau (Germany), Summer 2014
* Intern, Harris Corporation, Spring - Summer 2012
* More on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/alex-augenstein)

### Education
* PhD Candidate, Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Pittsburgh, 2019 - pres.
* M.S., Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Pittsburgh, 2016 - 2019
   * Thesis title 'Feudal Networks for Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning Revisited'
   * Transferred in ME67500 for credit from Purdue University, a distance-enabled graduate course in robust multivariable control
* B.S., Electrical Engineering, University of Pittsburgh, 2011 - 2015
   * Minor in mathematics
   * Concentration in signal processing and (analog & digital) communication systems

### Other
* I enjoyed robotics club and ham radio club in college - my callsign is KD8UYM though you won't catch me on the airwaves any time soon (just sold my most recent rig a few months ago)
* I also loved 3D printing - past-tense because my last one was well-loved. I used it for all kinds of things including a self-study course in grad school for printing the brunt of an Arduino-controlled inverted pendulum. Naturally it caught fire at the last minute - I improvised with some other materials I had laying around and got it to work, but haven't bought a new one since then (but it's a buyer's market right now so you never know - the price has come down by a factor of 5 since I got my first one)
* I'm a big fan of open source code. [Find me on GitHub](https://github.com/asa55) just for fun or to see the source code for this site

## Thanks for stopping by! Please check back soon for updates

Commit message:

updated home and programming content

assets/content/home.md, after:

# Welcome to my Blog!

![me](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/asa55/asa55.github.io/master/assets/images/me.png)
### Alex Augenstein: Engineer, Scientist, Entrepreneur

## This site is in active development. In a sense this is for professional demonstration, but the content of this site is a compilation of my own personal reference notes I actually use and come back to. I hope you find this resource insightful as you browse around, and if you have any suggestions please feel free to [share your thoughts with me on GitHub](https://github.com/asa55/asa55.github.io/issues)

## A little bit about me
### Work
* Founder, [Neurobi Company](https://neurobi.com/), 2019 - pres.
* Engineer, Naval Nuclear Laboratory, 2015 - pres.
* Research Assistant, University of Pittsburgh, Fall 2014
* Research Assistant, University of Zwickau (Germany), Summer 2014
* Intern, Harris Corporation, Spring - Summer 2012
* More on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/alex-augenstein)

### Education
* PhD Candidate, Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Pittsburgh, 2019 - pres.
* M.S., Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Pittsburgh, 2016 - 2019
   * Thesis title 'Feudal Networks for Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning Revisited'
   * Transferred in ME67500 for credit from Purdue University, a distance-enabled graduate course in robust multivariable control
* B.S., Electrical Engineering, University of Pittsburgh, 2011 - 2015
   * Minor in mathematics
   * Concentration in signal processing and (analog & digital) communication systems

### Other
* I enjoyed robotics club and ham radio club in college - my callsign is KD8UYM though you won't catch me on the airwaves any time soon (just sold my most recent rig a few months ago)
* I also loved 3D printing - past-tense because my last one was well-loved. I used it for all kinds of things including a self-study course in grad school for printing the brunt of an Arduino-controlled inverted pendulum. Naturally it caught fire at the last minute - I improvised with some other materials I had laying around and got it to work, but haven't bought a new one since then (but it's a buyer's market right now so you never know - the price has come down by a factor of 5 since I got my first one)
* I'm a big fan of open source code. [Find me on GitHub](https://github.com/asa55) just for fun or to see the source code for this site

## Thanks for stopping by! Please check back soon for updates
