assets/content/programming.md, before:

## I'm particularly interested in 'full stack python' which is kind of a misnomer because you still need to have a good handle on JS in order to handle some of the frontend work. To exercise, I typically keep a python shell up next to a node shell and code the same idea in both. Here are a few of my notes:

|Topic| Python | both | JavaScript |
|-|-|-|-|
| comments | `#`<br>`"""  """` | | `//`<br>`/*  */` |
| declaration |`my_var = 5`| | `var myVar = 5`<br>`let myVar = 5` <br>`const myVar = 5` |
| operators|`//` |`+`<br>`-`<br>`*`<br>`**`<br>`/`<br>`%` | |
| assignment| |`=`<br>`+=`<br>`-=`<br>`*=`<br>`**=`<br>`/=`<br>`%=` | |
| deletion | `del(my_var)` | | `delete(myVar)` |
|increment<br>decrement | | |`++`<br>`--` |
|equivalence |`is` |`==`<br>`!=` |`===`<br>`!==` |
| equivalence rules | `[]==[]` returns `True` | | `[]==[]` returns `false` (because not referring to the same instance) |
| casting | `str()`<br>`int()`<br>`float()`<br>`bool()`| |`String()`<br>`Number()`<br>`Boolean()` |
| special types | without imports, `float('inf')`<br>`float(nan)` | | `NaN`<br>`undefined`<br>`null`<br>`Infinity` |
| type checking | `type()` | | `typeof()`<br>`isNaN()`<br>`isFinite()` |
| array data structure| `[]` is called a 'list' but is implemented as an array | [1,2,3] | `[]` is aptly referred to as an array |
| indexing | `[1,2][0][0]` returns `TypeError` | `[1,2][0]` returns `1` |`[1,2][0][0]` returns `undefined` |
| immutable arrays | `(1,2,3)` called a tuple | |  `(2,3)` is syntactically valid but not useful (returns last element only (`3`)) |
| inserting array element | `a=[]`<br>`a[0]=10` returns `SyntaxError`| | `var a = []`<br>`a[0]=10`<br>`a[100]=20`<br>returns length 101 array (`[10, <99 empty items>, 20]`) |
| removing array element | `arr=['h','i','!']`<br>`del arr[1]`<br> returns `['h','!']` | | `var arr=['h','i','!'];`<br>`delete arr[1]`<br>returns `['h','!']` |
| array length | `len([1,2,3])` | | `[1,2,3].length` |
| access last array element | `[1,2,3][-1]` | | `arr=[1,2,3];`<br>`arr[arr.length-1];` |
| slicing | `[1,2,3][:1]`<br>`[1,2,3][1:]` | | `[1,2,3].slice(null,2)`<br>`[1,2,3].slice(1)` |
| clear array | `arr.clear()` | | `arr.length = 0;` |
| array methods | `arr.append(5)`<br>`arr.extend([5,6])`<br>`.insert()`<br>`.remove()`<br>`.index()` | `.reverse()`<br>`.sort()`<br>`.pop()` | `arr.push(5)`<br>`arr.push(5,6)`<br>`.filter()  .map()  .reduce()`<br>`.every()  .some()`<br>`.keys()`<br>`.shift()  .unshift()` |
| in |`in` refers to values | `in` | `in` refers to indexes |
| range array | `x=list(range(10))`<br>or as a list comprehension<br>`x=[i for i in range(10)]`<br>or in Python3 with unpacking operator<br>`x=[*range(10)]` | | `x=[];`<br>`for (i=0;i<10;i++) {x[i]=i};` |
| string element indexing | | `'hello'[1]` returns `'e'` | |
|string overloaded ops |`*` |`+` | `'2'*'50'` returns type number `100`<br>so does `'2'*50` |
| string methods | `capitalize()`<br>`find()`<br>`upper()  lower()`<br>`isupper()  islower()`<br>`split()  count()` | | `.length` (no parens)<br>`.indexOf()  .lastIndexOf()`<br>`.slice(,)  .replace(,)`<br>`.toUpperCase()  .toLowerCase()`<br>`.concat(,)  .charAt()`<br>`.split()` |
| array-of-string concatenation | `['hello'] + [' world']` | | `['hello'].concat([' world'])` |
| string casting | `list('hi')` returns `['h','i']`<br>`tuple('hi')` returns `('h','i')`| | `var arr = new Array('4')` returns `['4']`<br>this next one is not sting casting, but `var arr = new Array(4)` returns length 4 array `[,,,,]` (note that JS ignores the last comment when there is no data between it and the bracket) |
| regular expressions | not built in, `import re`| | `var a = myStr.search(/mySearchStr/i)`|
| JSON-like syntax | `i,j='k',1`<br>`b={i:j}` returns hash table (dictionary) `{'k':1}`| | `i='k';j=1; b={i:j}` returns object `{i:'k',j:1}` |
| printing | `print()` | | `console.log()` |
| datetime | `import datetime as dt`<br>`d=dt.datetime.now().timestamp()`<br> gets seconds with millisecond precision since 1970 | | `var d = new Date()`<br>`d.getTime();`<br> gets milliseconds since 1970 |
| control flow keywords | `pass` | `continue`<br>`break` | |
| if | `if (conditions):`<br>`elif (conditions):`<br>`else:` | | `if(conditions) { }`<br>`else if (conditions) { }`<br>`else { };` |
| while | `while(conditions):` | | `while(conditions) { };` |
|do-while | not built in<br>`while True:`<br>....`#code`<br>....`if (condition):`<br>........`break` | | `do {]`<br>`while(conditions) { };` |
| for | `for i in range(5):`<br>`for items in list:` | | `for ( var i=0; i<5; i++) { };` |
| switch | not built in | | `switch(myCase) { case 1: break;`<br>....`default:  };` |
| try-catch | `try:`<br>`except:`<br>`finally:` | | `try {  throw "myErr";}`<br>`catch(err) { }`<br>`finally { };` |
| doctests | `def sum(a,b):`<br>....`""" >>> sum(2,2)`<br>....`4 """` | | not built in<br>`npm install doctest`|
| object properties (attributes and methods) | `class MyClass(object):`<br>....`def __init__(self):`<br>........`self.attrib=5`<br>....`def myMethod(self):`<br>........`pass`<br>`myInstance = MyClass()` | | there is a lot more to properly comparing OOP between JS and Python - I will update soon.<br>`myInst={myAttrib:5,myMethod:function(){},};` |
| promises | not built in | | `var promise1 = new Promise(function(resolve, reject) {`<br>....`setTimeout(function() {`<br>........`resolve('foo'); }, 300); });`<br>`promise1.then(function(value) {`<br>....`console.log(value); });`<br>`console.log(promise1);` |
| lambdas | `def addTen(myNum):`<br>....`return myNum + 10`<br>can be written as<br>`addTen = lambda myNum: myNum + 10` | | `function addTen(myNum) { return myNum + 10 };`<br>can be written as<br>`const addTen = (myNum) => myNum + 10;` |
| map example | `def double(x):`<br>....`return x*2`<br>`y=map(double,[1,2,3])`<br>can be written as<br>`y= list(map(lambda x: x*2, [1,2,3]))`<br>or as a list comprehension (not a map)<br>`y=[i*2 for i in [1,2,3]]` | | `const y=[1,2,3].map(x => x*2);` |

Commit message:

updated home and programming content

assets/content/programming.md, after:

# Programming

## Every software enthusiast needs to be comfortable in at least one language. If I could stick to Python, I would. But the web demands JS, embedded demands (whatever language compiler you can get that targets your device) mostly C/C++, and cross-platform mobile app development using Unity engine needs C# while MultiOS Engine needs Java (or Kotlin). I love Matlab so very much, but it's not general purpose and it's extremely expensive for professional use

## Compounding all of the above concerns is the fact that you need to be comfortable enough in a single language that you can code on a whiteboard, most notoriously during a big coding interview but also for presentation purposes

## I'm particularly interested in 'full stack python' which is kind of a misnomer because you still need to have a good handle on JS in order to handle some of the frontend work. To exercise, I typically keep a Python shell up next to a NodeJS shell and code the same idea in both. Here are a few of my notes:

|Topic| Python | both | JavaScript |
|-|-|-|-|
| comments | `#`<br>`"""  """` | | `//`<br>`/*  */` |
| declaration |`my_var = 5`| | `var myVar = 5`<br>`let myVar = 5` <br>`const myVar = 5` |
| operators|`//` |`+`<br>`-`<br>`*`<br>`**`<br>`/`<br>`%` | |
| assignment| |`=`<br>`+=`<br>`-=`<br>`*=`<br>`**=`<br>`/=`<br>`%=` | |
| deletion | `del(my_var)` | | `delete(myVar)` |
|increment<br>decrement | | |`++`<br>`--` |
|equivalence |`is` |`==`<br>`!=` |`===`<br>`!==` |
| equivalence rules | `[]==[]` returns `True` | | `[]==[]` returns `false` (because not referring to the same instance) |
| casting | `str()`<br>`int()`<br>`float()`<br>`bool()`| |`String()`<br>`Number()`<br>`Boolean()` |
| special types | without imports, `float('inf')`<br>`float(nan)` | | `NaN`<br>`undefined`<br>`null`<br>`Infinity` |
| type checking | `type()` | | `typeof()`<br>`isNaN()`<br>`isFinite()` |
| array data structure| `[]` is called a 'list' but is implemented as an array | [1,2,3] | `[]` is aptly referred to as an array |
| indexing | `[1,2][0][0]` returns `TypeError` | `[1,2][0]` returns `1` |`[1,2][0][0]` returns `undefined` |
| immutable arrays | `(1,2,3)` called a tuple | |  `(2,3)` is syntactically valid but not useful (returns last element only (`3`)) |
| inserting array element | `a=[]`<br>`a[0]=10` returns `SyntaxError`| | `var a = []`<br>`a[0]=10`<br>`a[100]=20`<br>returns length 101 array (`[10, <99 empty items>, 20]`) |
| removing array element | `arr=['h','i','!']`<br>`del arr[1]`<br> returns `['h','!']` | | `var arr=['h','i','!'];`<br>`delete arr[1]`<br>returns `['h','!']` |
| array length | `len([1,2,3])` | | `[1,2,3].length` |
| access last array element | `[1,2,3][-1]` | | `arr=[1,2,3];`<br>`arr[arr.length-1];` |
| slicing | `[1,2,3][:1]`<br>`[1,2,3][1:]` | | `[1,2,3].slice(null,2)`<br>`[1,2,3].slice(1)` |
| clear array | `arr.clear()` | | `arr.length = 0;` |
| array methods | `arr.append(5)`<br>`arr.extend([5,6])`<br>`.insert()`<br>`.remove()`<br>`.index()` | `.reverse()`<br>`.sort()`<br>`.pop()` | `arr.push(5)`<br>`arr.push(5,6)`<br>`.filter()  .map()  .reduce()`<br>`.every()  .some()`<br>`.keys()`<br>`.shift()  .unshift()` |
| in |`in` refers to values | `in` | `in` refers to indexes |
| range array | `x=list(range(10))`<br>or as a list comprehension<br>`x=[i for i in range(10)]`<br>or in Python3 with unpacking operator<br>`x=[*range(10)]` | | `x=[];`<br>`for (i=0;i<10;i++) {x[i]=i};` |
| string element indexing | | `'hello'[1]` returns `'e'` | |
|string overloaded ops |`*` |`+` | `'2'*'50'` returns type number `100`<br>so does `'2'*50` |
| string methods | `capitalize()`<br>`find()`<br>`upper()  lower()`<br>`isupper()  islower()`<br>`split()  count()` | | `.length` (no parens)<br>`.indexOf()  .lastIndexOf()`<br>`.slice(,)  .replace(,)`<br>`.toUpperCase()  .toLowerCase()`<br>`.concat(,)  .charAt()`<br>`.split()` |
| array-of-string concatenation | `['hello'] + [' world']` | | `['hello'].concat([' world'])` |
| string casting | `list('hi')` returns `['h','i']`<br>`tuple('hi')` returns `('h','i')`| | `var arr = new Array('4')` returns `['4']`<br>this next one is not sting casting, but `var arr = new Array(4)` returns length 4 array `[,,,,]` (note that JS ignores the last comment when there is no data between it and the bracket) |
| regular expressions | not built in, `import re`| | `var a = myStr.search(/mySearchStr/i)`|
| JSON-like syntax | `i,j='k',1`<br>`b={i:j}` returns hash table (dictionary) `{'k':1}`| | `i='k';j=1; b={i:j}` returns object `{i:'k',j:1}` |
| printing | `print()` | | `console.log()` |
| datetime | `import datetime as dt`<br>`d=dt.datetime.now().timestamp()`<br> gets seconds with millisecond precision since 1970 | | `var d = new Date()`<br>`d.getTime();`<br> gets milliseconds since 1970 |
| control flow keywords | `pass` | `continue`<br>`break` | |
| if | `if (conditions):`<br>`elif (conditions):`<br>`else:` | | `if(conditions) { }`<br>`else if (conditions) { }`<br>`else { };` |
| while | `while(conditions):` | | `while(conditions) { };` |
|do-while | not built in<br>`while True:`<br>....`#code`<br>....`if (condition):`<br>........`break` | | `do {]`<br>`while(conditions) { };` |
| for | `for i in range(5):`<br>`for items in list:` | | `for ( var i=0; i<5; i++) { };` |
| switch | not built in | | `switch(myCase) { case 1: break;`<br>....`default:  };` |
| try-catch | `try:`<br>`except:`<br>`finally:` | | `try {  throw "myErr";}`<br>`catch(err) { }`<br>`finally { };` |
| doctests | `def sum(a,b):`<br>....`""" >>> sum(2,2)`<br>....`4 """` | | not built in<br>`npm install doctest`|
| object properties (attributes and methods) | `class MyClass(object):`<br>....`def __init__(self):`<br>........`self.attrib=5`<br>....`def myMethod(self):`<br>........`pass`<br>`myInstance = MyClass()` | | there is a lot more to properly comparing OOP between JS and Python - I will update soon.<br>`myInst={myAttrib:5,myMethod:function(){},};` |
| promises | not built in | | `var promise1 = new Promise(function(resolve, reject) {`<br>....`setTimeout(function() {`<br>........`resolve('foo'); }, 300); });`<br>`promise1.then(function(value) {`<br>....`console.log(value); });`<br>`console.log(promise1);` |
| lambdas | `def addTen(myNum):`<br>....`return myNum + 10`<br>can be written as<br>`addTen = lambda myNum: myNum + 10` | | `function addTen(myNum) { return myNum + 10 };`<br>can be written as<br>`const addTen = (myNum) => myNum + 10;` |
| map example | `def double(x):`<br>....`return x*2`<br>`y=map(double,[1,2,3])`<br>can be written as<br>`y= list(map(lambda x: x*2, [1,2,3]))`<br>or as a list comprehension (not a map)<br>`y=[i*2 for i in [1,2,3]]` | | `const y=[1,2,3].map(x => x*2);` |

### I have examples of more advanced concepts in the data structures and algorithms section of this site - feel free to check them out for more language comparisons
