README.md, before:

# Check out [my GitHub Pages site (asa55.github.io)](https://asa55.github.io)!

## TODO
1. Migrate ```.md``` content to [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) (I used ZeroMD as a substitute for a static site generator - didn't know they existed at the time).
2. Come up with a consistent visual design (likely a [material design](https://material.io/design/material-theming/overview.html#using-material-theming))
3. Make the site [mobile friendly](https://search.google.com/test/mobile-friendly?id=O4Z96SDCnYz0aT-tVQdU2w) ([another site of mine is](https://search.google.com/test/mobile-friendly?id=gwzGUV1FCcS6oBVsc6KAgw), but both need updated with semantic HTML and [accessibility](https://wave.webaim.org/report#/asa55.github.io)).
4. Consider web components (with ```<template>```s and ```<slot>```s)
5. I know I wanted to use vanilla HTML/CSS/JS when I first started - that was fun - but now I look back wondering why I'm not using a templating engine, Sass, or TypeScript. It's time for that to change.
5. Invert the pendulum on the welcome screen, if I keep it (consider energy swing-up with cascaded PID to start with. Suboptimal sure, but the implementation is dead simple)
6. Delete content that I've since published on Medium, and add friend links to each blog post
7. Admit to the world that I'm mortified by the design of my site in hindsight (but also somewhat proud I kept learning to the point that I could be mortified).

Commit message:

inserted new TODO item #6
on vertical scroll capture for pendulum canvas

README.md, after:

# Check out [my GitHub Pages site (asa55.github.io)](https://asa55.github.io)!

## TODO
1. Migrate ```.md``` content to [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) (I used ZeroMD as a substitute for a static site generator - didn't know they existed at the time).
2. Come up with a consistent visual design (likely a [material design](https://material.io/design/material-theming/overview.html#using-material-theming))
3. Make the site [mobile friendly](https://search.google.com/test/mobile-friendly?id=O4Z96SDCnYz0aT-tVQdU2w) ([another site of mine is](https://search.google.com/test/mobile-friendly?id=gwzGUV1FCcS6oBVsc6KAgw), but both need updated with semantic HTML and [accessibility](https://wave.webaim.org/report#/asa55.github.io)).
4. Consider web components (with ```<template>```s and ```<slot>```s)
5. I know I wanted to use vanilla HTML/CSS/JS when I first started - that was fun - but now I look back wondering why I'm not using a templating engine, Sass, or TypeScript. It's time for that to change.
5. Invert the pendulum on the welcome screen, if I keep it (consider energy swing-up with cascaded PID to start with. Suboptimal sure, but the implementation is dead simple)
6. The pendulum canvas captures vertical and horizontal scroll, which is a pain. Disable vertical scroll capture.
7. Delete content that I've since published on Medium, and add friend links to each blog post
8. Admit to the world that I'm mortified by the design of my site in hindsight (but also somewhat proud I kept learning to the point that I could be mortified).
